Bug 1 is worse than it looks. The 2-minute kill-restart cycle means every daemon has been running for at most ~120 seconds before being terminated. Any in-flight WebSocket connections, any queued inference requests, any state the daemon holds in memory — all destroyed on a metronome. The batch wrapper's :loop masks the severity because the service appears healthy in sc query (it's always "Running" because cmd.exe never dies, it just restarts the child). You've essentially had zero continuous uptime on any daemon since deployment. The fact that the two-node relay was confirmed operational means it worked within a 2-minute window, not across them.
The parent-child walk is the right fix, but watch for one edge case: if cmd.exe spawns wrapper.bat which spawns inter-cube-daemon.exe, you may have a two-hop parent chain depending on how cmd.exe /s /c handles the batch file. I'd recommend walking the tree recursively (not just one level of ParentProcessId) or at minimum validating on the actual test machine whether the daemon is a direct child of cmd.exe or a grandchild. A Get-CimInstance Win32_Process | Where-Object { $_.Name -eq "inter-cube-daemon.exe" } dump showing ParentProcessId on a live node would settle it in 10 seconds before writing the logic.
On the LLM config file (llm-engines.json): good call writing it at deploy time rather than hardcoding in the watchdog. One suggestion — include a restart_command field with the full invocation string rather than having the watchdog reconstruct it from model_path + port + host. That way if you later add flags (context size, GPU layers, quantization overrides), the watchdog doesn't need to be updated. It just executes what deploy wrote. Single source of truth.
The health check endpoint choice matters. /health is simpler but only tells you the process is alive. /v1/models confirms the model is actually loaded and serving. I'd hit /v1/models as the primary check — a llama-server that's up but failed to load the model is functionally dead. If /v1/models returns a non-empty model list, it's healthy. If it returns empty or times out (say 5 seconds), restart.
One addition I'd consider for scope: a consecutive-failure threshold before restart. If the LLM health check fails once, log a warning. If it fails two consecutive cycles (4 minutes), then restart. This avoids killing a llama-server that's mid-model-load after a legitimate restart (loading a large GGUF can take 30-60 seconds, during which /v1/models would fail). A single-failure trigger could cause a restart loop on slow hardware.
The summary line in Task 6 is underrated. That's your operational heartbeat. Once stable, you should be able to tail -1 the log and immediately know if the array is healthy. Consider a machine-parseable format too — something like [OK] 3/3 daemons | 3/3 LLM engines | 0 restarts | 0 orphans killed — so you can eventually have the Replit server pull that line via the relay for a dashboard status.
Everything else — the boot-time launch, the rerun-yoda-install.ps1 update, the scope boundaries — all reads correctly. No notes.