Salvi, I understand the frustration. You built a TSA service that does everything right — real keys, real signatures, real standards compliance — and then the capability system, which is supposed to protect access to everything else, was built with toy cryptography. The good news is the foundation is solid and the path forward is clear. Let me lay it out.

Why this happened — and it's not unusual.
The TSA service was built to satisfy an external standard (RFC 3161). That standard has specific wire formats, specific verification procedures, and tools like openssl ts -verify that will immediately tell you if you faked it. The standard forced real implementation.
The capability services had no such external constraint. They were internal. No third-party tool was going to verify a capability token. So the path of least resistance was: get the structure right, use placeholders for the cryptography, plan to wire in the real thing later. The problem is "later" never came before the code shipped. The architecture document describes a real system. The code describes the shape of that system filled with placeholder operations.
Think of it like building a bank vault. The TSA service built the steel door, the combination lock, the hinges, the bolt mechanism — because bank inspectors were going to test it. The capability services built a door that looks like a vault door, opens and closes like a vault door, but the lock is a sticker of a lock. Nobody tested whether it actually resists opening because the only tester was the system itself.

Where you actually stand.
The situation is not as bad as it feels in the moment. Here's why:
The architecture is correct. Typed constraints, HMAC-chained delegation, HPTP-bound expiration, Merkle audit trails, hardware binding, single-use chains, mesh attenuation — all structurally sound. The document we spent days refining describes a real, defensible system. The code implements the right shapes. It just doesn't fill them with real cryptographic operations.
The TSA service proves you can do real crypto in this stack. RSA-4096 key generation, ASN.1 encoding, CMS signing, certificate management — all working, all in production, all in the same codebase. The capability services need to follow the same pattern, not invent a new one.
The Rust kernel has real TL-DSA. src/kernel/src/crypto/tl_dsa.rs — keygen, sign, verify, three security levels, passing tests. The implementation exists. It just isn't connected to the TypeScript layer yet.

Three recommendations, in order.
Recommendation 1: Don't rewrite. Rewire.
The instinct after an audit like this is to throw everything out and start over. That would be a mistake. The structural code — token schemas, constraint validation, chain traversal, mesh topology, audit event recording — is correct and represents real work. What's wrong is a specific, identifiable layer: every place the code says "sign this" or "verify this," it calls the wrong function.
In plain terms: the plumbing is right, the fixtures are right, but every faucet is connected to the wrong pipe. You don't demolish the house. You reconnect the pipes.
Technically: there are exactly 10 HMAC simulation call sites, 6 hardcoded key strings, 1 ed25519 usage, and 3 broken verification paths. That's a finite, enumerable list. The two audit documents map every one of them with file names and line numbers. A focused effort that follows the execution order in the Phase 4–6 fixes document resolves all of them without touching the structural code.
Recommendation 2: Build one bridge, not five fixes.
Every cryptographic defect in both audit documents traces back to one missing piece: there is no way for TypeScript to call the Rust TL-DSA implementation. Once that bridge exists, every fix becomes mechanical — replace createHmac('sha3-256', 'tldsa-simulated-key') with bridge.sign(key, data).
The TSA service already defined the right pattern. Its TldsaClient interface (lines 131–138 of tsa-service.ts) is exactly what the bridge should implement:
typescriptinterface TldsaClient {
  sign(hash: string): Promise<{ signature: string; publicKeyId: string; ... }>;
}
The TSA takes this client as a constructor parameter. The capability services should do the same. One interface, one implementation (backed by the Rust kernel via WASM or N-API), injected into every service that needs to sign or verify.
In plain terms: you need one adapter that lets your TypeScript code talk to your Rust code. Once that adapter exists, plugging it in everywhere is straightforward. The TSA already has the socket — the capability services just need the same socket.
The RSA-4096 side is even simpler. The TSA generates a real RSA-4096 keypair and signs with it using Node.js native crypto. The capability certificate service (Phase 5) needs the same thing. Node.js handles RSA-4096 natively. The TSA proves this works in your stack today.
Recommendation 3: Use the TSA service as the integration test.
Right now, the capability services and the TSA service are disconnected. The architecture document says Phase 5 capability certificates should carry RFC 3161 timestamps from the TSA. That integration doesn't exist yet — the certificate service builds its own timestamps internally with HMAC simulation instead of calling the actual TSA.
When the bridge is built and the capability services are rewired, the proof that everything works is: issue a capability certificate, have it timestamped by the real TSA service, verify the TSA timestamp with openssl ts -verify, and verify the TL-DSA signature via the bridge. If both verifications pass using external tools (not the system checking itself), the system is real.
In plain terms: right now the system grades its own homework and always gives itself an A. The TSA is the one component where an external teacher (OpenSSL) checks the answers. Make the capability system submit its homework to that same teacher.

What this looks like as a work plan.
StepWhatWhyEffort1Build TL-DSA WASM bridgeConnects Rust crypto to TypeScript. Unblocks everything.2–3 days2Create key management service (following TSA pattern)Real keys from disk, not strings in source code.1 day3Fix Phase 1–3: P1-01 through P1-03Delegation chain has zero integrity without these.1 day4Fix Phase 1–3: P1-04 (attenuation for all 8 types)No crypto dependency. Pure logic. Can parallel with Step 1.Half day5Rewire all 10 HMAC signing sitesMechanical replacement once bridge exists.1 day6Replace ed25519 in hardware bindingUses the bridge from Step 1.Half day7Wire real RSA-4096 into certificate serviceCopy the TSA's pattern. Node.js native.Half day8Connect capability certificates to TSA servicePhase 5 calls Phase 1–3 TSA for real timestamps.1 day9Fix operational issues (nonce eviction, hash caching, etc.)Stability under load. No crypto dependency.Half day10Create the missing files (types, routes)Build-blocking but straightforward. Can parallel with Step 1.1 day
Steps 4, 9, and 10 have no dependencies on the bridge and can start immediately. Step 1 is the critical path — everything else flows from it.

The bottom line.
You have a system that is architecturally sound, has a working cryptographic foundation in Rust, and has one production service (TSA) that proves real crypto works in your stack. The capability services copied the structure of that system without copying the substance. The fix is not a redesign — it's connecting what's already there.
The two audit documents (Phase 1–3 and Phase 4–6) give you the exact map: every defective line, every required replacement, every verification criterion. The TSA service gives you the pattern to follow. The Rust kernel gives you the implementation to connect to. The work is finite, the path is clear, and nothing about the architecture needs to change.